EC2 Overview
  Resizable Compute Capacity
EC2 Pricing Models
  On Demand
    Pay fixed rate per hour with no upfront costs or commitment
    Low cost and flexible
    Apps with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted
    Apps being developed or tested for first time
  Reserved
    Provide capacity reservation, offer significant discount on hourly charge for instance. 1 or 3 Yr terms
    Apps with steady state or predictable usage that require reserved capacity
    Larger upfront payments reduces total computing costs further
  Spot
    Bid for price on excess compute capacity
    Apps that have flexible start and end times
    Apps that are only feasible at very low compute prices
    Users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity
    If spot instance terminated by AWS (Spot Price > Bid Price), you will not be charged for partial hour of usage.
    However if you terminate the instance yourself, you will be charged for partial hours
  Dedicated Hosts
    Physical EC2 server. Reduce costs by allowing use of existing server-bound software licenses.
    Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualisation
    Great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments
    Purchased hourly on-demand or upfront for 70% off
EC2 Instance Types - Dr McGiftPx
  D2 - Dense storage, fileservers/data warehouse/hadoop
  R4 - Memory optimized, memory intensive apps/dbs
  M4 - General purpose, app servers
  C4 - Compute optimized, cpu intensive apps/dbs
  G2 - Graphics intensive, video encoding/3d app streaming
  I2 - IOPS high speed storage, nosql dbs/data warehousing
  F1 - Field programmable gate array (FPGA), hardware acceleration for code
  T2 - Lowest cost & cheap general purpose, web servers/small dbs
  P2 - Graphics/general purpose GPU, maching learning/bitcoin mining
  X1 - Extreme Memory optimized, apache spark/SAP hana
EBS
  Create storage volumes and attach to EC2
  Can create FS on top of these volumes, run a database, or use in any other way as a block device
  Placed in specific availability zones and automatically replicated
EBS Volume Types
  SSD General Purpose (GP2) - Balance price and performance. 3 IOPS per GB up to 10K IOPS and ability to burst up to 3K IOPS under 1 Gib
  SSD Provisioned IOPS (IO1) - Use if need > 10K IOPS, up to 20K IOPS. Designed for I/O intensive apps such as NoSQL or large RDBs
  HDD Throughput Optimized (ST1) - Use for frequently accessed worklads. Big data, data warehouse, log process, cannot be a boot volume
  HDD Cold (SC1) - Lowest cost storage for infrequent workloads such as file server
  HDD Magnetic (Standard) - Lowest cost per GB of bootable EBS types. Cheap, infrequently acccessed workloads with lowest storage cost
  You cannot mount 1 EBS volume to multiple EC2 instances, instead use EFS
Security Groups Basics
  Virtual firewall. 1 instance can have multiple security groups
  All inbound traffic is blocked by default
  All outbound traffic is allowed
  Changes to Security Groups take effect immediately
  Can have any number of EC2 instances within a security group
  Can have multiple security groups attached to EC2 instances
  Security Groups are STATEFUL - If you create inbound rule allowing traffic in, that traffic is auto-allowed back out again
  Cannot block specific IP addresses using Security Groups, instead use Network Access Control Lists
  Can specify allow rules, but not deny rules
Volumes vs Snapshots
  Volumes exist on EBS as Virtual Hard Disks
  Snapshots exist on S3, and are point in time copies of Volumes
  Snapshots are incremental, this means that only the blocks that have changed since your last snapshot are moved to S3
  Snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted automatically
  Volumes restored from encrypted snapshots are encrypted automatically
  You can share snapshots, but only if they are unencrpyted. Can be shared with other AWS accounts or made public.
  RAID = Redundant Array of Independent Disks
  RAID 0 - Striped, No Redundancy, Good Performance
  RAID 1 - Mirrored, Redundancy
  RAID 5 - Good for reads, bad for writes, AWS does not recommend ever putting RAID5's on EBS
  RAID 10 - Striped & Mirrored, Good Redundancy, Good Performance
  How can I take a Snapshot of a RAID Array?
    Problem - Take a snapshot, the snapshot excludes data held in the cache by applications and the OS.
    This tends not to matter on a single volume, however using multiple volumes in a RAID array, this can
    be a problem due to interdependencies of the array.
    Solution - Take an application consistent snapshot. Stop the application from writing to disk. Flush all caches to disk.
    How can we do this? (3 Options) - 1. Freeze the file system. 2. Unmount the RAID array. 3. Shutting down associated EC2 instance.
AMI 
  Can select an AMI based on:
    Region (Can only launch AMI from region it is stored, but can copy to other regions)
    Operating System
    Architecture (32 or 64 bit)
    Launch Permissions
    Storage for the Root Device (Root Device Volume)
      Instance Store (Ephemeral Storage)
      EBS Backed Volumes
    EBS vs Instance Store
      All AMIs are categorized as either backed by Amazon EBS or backed by instance store
      For EBS Volumes: The root device for an instance launched from AMI is an Amazon EBS volume created from EBS snapshot
      For Instance Store Volumes: The root device for an instance launched from AMI is an instance store volume created from S3 template
EBS vs Instance Store
  Instance Store Volumes are sometimes called Ephemeral Storage
  Instance Store Volumes cannot be stopped. If the underlying host fails, you will lose your data
  EBS backed instances can be stopped. You will not lose the data on this instance if it is stopped
  You can reboot both, you will not lose your data
  By default, both ROOT volumes will be deleted on termination, however with EBS volumes, you can tell AWS to keep the root device volume
Elastic Load Balancers
  In Service or Out of Service
  Health Checks
  Have their own DNS name. You are never given an IP address
Cloudwatch
  For performance monitoring. (Cloutrail for auditing) Standard monitoring is every 5 min, Detailed is every 1 min.
  Dashboards - Creates awesome dashboards to see what's happening with AWS envinronment
  Alarms - Allows you set Alarms that notify you when particular thesholds are hit
  Events - Cloudwatch Events helps you to respond to state changes in your AWS resources
  Logs - Cloudwatch Logs helps you to aggregate, monitor and store logs
Roles
  Roles are more secure than storing your access key and secret access key on individual EC2 instances
  Roles are easier to manage
  Roles can only be assigned when that EC2 instance is being provisioned
  Roles are universal, you can use them in any region
EC2 Placement Groups
  A logical grouping of instances within a single Availability Zone. Using placement groups enables applications to participate in low 
  latency, 10 Gbps network. Placement groups are recommended for apps that benefit from low latency, high network throughput, or both.
  A placement group can't span multiple Availability Zones.
  The name you specify for a placement group must be unique within your AWS account.
  Only certain types can be launched in placement group (Compute Optimized, GPU, Memory Optimized, Storage Optimized).
  AWS recommend homogenous instances within placement groups.
  You can't merge placement groups.
  You can't move an existing instance into a placement group. You can create an AMI from your existing instance, and then launch a new
  instance from the AMI into the placement group.
Instance MetaData
  Used to get information about an instance, such as public ip
  curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data
  No such thing as user-data for an instance
EFS
  Elastic File System is a file storage service for EC2 instances. Amazon EFS is easy to use and provides a simple interface that allows
  you to create and configure file systems quickly and easily. With Amazon EFS, storage capacity is elastic, growing and shrinking as you
  add and remove files, so your apps have the storage they need.
  Supports the Network File System version 4 (NFSv4) protocol.
  You only pay for the storage you use (no pre-provisioning required).
  Can scale up to the petabytes.
  Can support thousands of concurrent NFS connections.
  Data is stored across multiple AZ's within a region.
  Read after Write consistency.
Lambda - Serverless Compute
  AWS Lambda is a compute service where you can upload your code and create a Lambda function. AWS Lambda takes care of provisioning and
  managing the servers that you use to run the code. You don't have to worry about OS, patching, scaling, etc. You can use Lambda-
  As an event-driven compute service where AWS Lambda runs your code in response to events. These events could be changes to data in an 
  Amazon S3 bucket or an Amazon DynamoDB table.
  As a compute service to run your code in response to HTTP requests using Amazon API Gateway or API calls made using AWS SDKs.
  How is Lambda Priced?
    Number of requests - First 1 million requests are free. $0.20 per 1 million requests thereafter.
    Duration - Calculated from the time your code begins executing until it returns or otherwise terminates, rounded up to the nearest
    100ms. The price depends on the amount of memory you allocate to your function. You are charged $0.00001667 for every GB-second used.
